README.md, before:

# Action Tracker Pro

Simple React app to display action items from `gen-lang-client-0815432790.oberoiventures.actionitemstable`.

Getting started

1. Install deps: npm install
2. Run: npm run dev

Notes
- The data service will attempt to fetch from the env var `VITE_API_URL`. If not set or the request fails, it will use local mock data.
- The UI provides tabs for owners (Florence, Dan, Kams, Sunny) and an **Admin** tab. Click an owner tab to see only that owner's records; click **Admin** to view all data and use filters (Owner, Business Type, Status, Deadlines, Business).

- The table displays columns: ACTIONS, CREATE DATE, BUSINESS TYPE, BUSINESS, PROCESS, SUB-TYPE, DELIVERABLE, OWNER, DEADLINE, MIN, PRIORITY, STATUS.

To point to a real API endpoint, set VITE_API_URL when running the dev server:

Windows PowerShell example:

  $env:VITE_API_URL = "https://your-api.example.com/action_items"; npm run dev

  Deploying to Google Cloud Run 🚀

  Prerequisites:
  - Install and initialize the Google Cloud SDK: https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs
  - Enable Cloud Run & Container Registry / Artifact Registry APIs.
  - Ensure you have a service account with BigQuery access for the Cloud Run service (preferred). Avoid embedding service account JSON in the repository.

  How to build and deploy (using Artifact Registry or Container Registry):

  1) Build the container image locally:

    docker build -t gcr.io/PROJECT-ID/actionitems:latest .

  2) Push the image to Container Registry (replace PROJECT-ID):

    docker push gcr.io/PROJECT-ID/actionitems:latest

  3) Deploy to Cloud Run:

    gcloud run deploy actionitems \
      --image gcr.io/PROJECT-ID/actionitems:latest \
      --region us-central1 \
      --platform managed \
      --allow-unauthenticated \
      --set-env-vars BQ_TABLE="gen-lang-client-0815432790.oberoiventures.actionitemstable"

  Notes on credentials:
  - Preferred: grant the Cloud Run service a service account with BigQuery Data Viewer / Data Editor permissions. Use `--service-account` in the deploy command to run as that service account.
  - If you must use a service account key file, store it in Secret Manager and reference it as an environment variable or mount it at runtime. Do NOT commit the key into your repo.

  Local prod test:
  - Run `npm run build` then `node server/index.js` and open http://localhost:8080 (set PORT env var if needed).

Commit message:

chore(server): use ADC when GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS is not set; document behavior in README

README.md, after:

# Action Tracker Pro

Simple React app to display action items from `gen-lang-client-0815432790.oberoiventures.actionitemstable`.

Getting started

1. Install deps: npm install
2. Run: npm run dev

Notes
- The data service will attempt to fetch from the env var `VITE_API_URL`. If not set or the request fails, it will use local mock data.
- The UI provides tabs for owners (Florence, Dan, Kams, Sunny) and an **Admin** tab. Click an owner tab to see only that owner's records; click **Admin** to view all data and use filters (Owner, Business Type, Status, Deadlines, Business).

- The table displays columns: ACTIONS, CREATE DATE, BUSINESS TYPE, BUSINESS, PROCESS, SUB-TYPE, DELIVERABLE, OWNER, DEADLINE, MIN, PRIORITY, STATUS.

To point to a real API endpoint, set VITE_API_URL when running the dev server:

Windows PowerShell example:

  $env:VITE_API_URL = "https://your-api.example.com/action_items"; npm run dev

  Deploying to Google Cloud Run 🚀

  Prerequisites:
  - Install and initialize the Google Cloud SDK: https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs
  - Enable Cloud Run & Container Registry / Artifact Registry APIs.
  - Ensure you have a service account with BigQuery access for the Cloud Run service (preferred). Avoid embedding service account JSON in the repository.

  How to build and deploy (using Artifact Registry or Container Registry):

  1) Build the container image locally:

    docker build -t gcr.io/PROJECT-ID/actionitems:latest .

  2) Push the image to Container Registry (replace PROJECT-ID):

    docker push gcr.io/PROJECT-ID/actionitems:latest

  3) Deploy to Cloud Run:

    gcloud run deploy actionitems \
      --image gcr.io/PROJECT-ID/actionitems:latest \
      --region us-central1 \
      --platform managed \
      --allow-unauthenticated \
      --set-env-vars BQ_TABLE="gen-lang-client-0815432790.oberoiventures.actionitemstable"

  Notes on credentials:
  - Preferred: grant the Cloud Run service a service account with BigQuery Data Viewer / Data Editor permissions. Use `--service-account` in the deploy command to run as that service account.
  - If you must use a service account key file, store it in Secret Manager and reference it as an environment variable or mount it at runtime. Do NOT commit the key into your repo.
  - Behavior in this project: if `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` is set (pointing to a JSON key file), the server will use that key (useful for local development). If it is NOT set, the server will rely on Application Default Credentials (ADC) — this is how Cloud Run should be configured: attach a service account with the required BigQuery permissions and don't set a JSON key in the environment.

  Local prod test:
  - Run `npm run build` then `node server/index.js` and open http://localhost:8080 (set PORT env var if needed).
